Handling Strings in Java. Objective.
Create a program to practice String
Management in Java. At the end we, should
observe the following.
Preferably, close any other open
project. Create a new project. Let's
create a new project. So, click on File ->
New Project. We're going to create a new
project called BasicStringHandling. We
select Java -> Java Application and click on Next.
The project name is BasicStringHandling. The project location is C:\Courses\JavaFundamentals\Lesson02
We deselect Create Main Class because we're going to create
the main class by ourselves
and click on Finish
So, the project already has the desired
structure.
Create a new class. So, right
click over the project. Click new and
Java class. The class name is: StringHandling
The package is: strings and
click on Finish
The class has a desired structure. We can see
some comments that don't affect the
program a comment can be placed with a
//, /*   */
/**    */  for Javadoc. We'll study this topic later
in the course. We'll modify the class
with a following code. Modify the code
First we have the package called strings
and ends the line with a semicolon we
write a class name public class StringHandling. Open (curly) brackets and write the
main method, it's the same method that
we've been using in the last exercises
so we write public static void main a
string array called args and open a new
(curly) bracket. We create a variable called
firstName. As we see, we assign a value
of "John", after that we declare a variable
called lastName with the value of
"Smith". First we concatenate these values
the value of firstName and lastName
and we concatenate with any other string
using the add operator and next we can
use escape characters for example new
line in this case backslash n prints a new
line. A tab we can use backslash t, a
backward we can use backslash b, a carriage
return we can use backslash r, simple
quote backslash and a simple quote symbol
and double quote we can use backslash and
a double quote character. With this we
finish our main method and close the
class called a StringHandling. Remember
that you can click on the name of the
file in case of problem when coding
this class. We execute
our project. Over the name of the class
StringHadling.java we give right-click and
select Run File, and the result is as
follows.
The concatenation of the variables firstName
and lastName. In this case with
values Joan Smith and after that we
have the examples of the escape
characters for example newline, tab,
backward, carriage return, simple quote
and double quote. So, this is the result
of using these escape characters in Java
Exercise Conclusion. With this exercise
we have put into practice the most basic
string management in Java. The issue of
string management we will see in more
detail later well, but we have discussed this
with the aim that we begin to be
familiar with this type of data that is
one of the most used in Java